<a name="topage"></a>

# 000.Basic HTML and HTML5

* HTML 4 -
   * HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) is the standard markup language for creating web pages and web applications.
   * It describes the structure of a web page using a markup syntax, consisting of elements (tags) that define the content and its semantic meaning.
   * HTML elements are composed of tags enclosed in angle brackets, with most tags having opening and closing tags to define the beginning and end of the content they enclose.
   * 

* HTML 5 -
   * HTML 5 is the latest version of HTML provide enhanced functionality and features.
   * It builds upon its predecessors (HTML4 and XHTML) and added new elements, attributes, and APIs (Application Programming Interfaces).
   * New Semantic Elements:
     ```
     <header>, <nav>, <article>, <section>, <footer>, etc.,
     ```
     
   * Audio and Video Support:
     ```
     embedding audio and video content using the <audio> and <video> tags.
     ```
     
   * Canvas and SVG -
     ```
     <canvas> element for drawing graphics, animations, and interactive visualizations directly within the web page using JavaScript.
     ```
     
   * Form -
     ```
     <input type="email">, <input type="date">, <input type="number">, etc.
     ```
     
   * Offline and Storage -
      * Application Cache (appcache) for enabling offline web applications
      * Web Storage API (localStorage and sessionStorage) for client-side data storage.

   * Improved Accessibility for users with disabilities:
     ```
     <figure>, <figcaption>, <main>, <aside>, <article>, <nav>, <footer>
     ```
   
   * Geolocation API: user's geographical location.
 
   * Web Workers and WebSockets:
      * Web Workers for running scripts in the background, separate from the main page
      * WebSockets for enabling full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection, facilitating real-time communication between clients and servers.

<p align="right">(<a href="#topage">back to top</a>)</p>
<br/>
<br/>
